So frontmatter is a pretty common
way to send in config with markdown.
And the way that that works is let's see,
we can just add,
I've always referred to
this as a fence code block.
I don't know if it has
an official term but
that's what I usually
hear it referenced as a.
So let's put this one in as 2021,
today is August 11.
So let's put it in is August 11.
We'll set a title of my first blog and
we will set a description.
This is my first MDX blog post, okay.
So that is the basics of how
we would use frontmatter.
So we can go into the other blog and
let's add more.
This one's from the future.
It'll happen tomorrow.
And we can say, another blog and
let's do like, watch out, I'm on a roll.
Okay, so,
now we've got this metadata in here.
And if we go into our graph qL setup,
we can see that some new
things have happened.
Now we've got all MDX here, right?
But we can also see if we go into our
page nodes, that, where did it go?
Children and then there's an MDX option.
And in the MDX option,
you can get the title and the raw body.
I would have missed all of the pieces.
Well, this is a little bit of
a roundabout way to do it anyways.
The easier thing to do is to just go for
all MDX.
So let's get all the nodes and
we're going to get the title, the date.
And I'm gonna make this relative,
so let's say from now.
And then I wanna get the raw body again.
So, now we can kinda see here's
the raw body of our post.
Here's what it's like when it was posted
and it looks like we're getting GMT.
So the hours are a little bit weird.
Or wait,
what are we getting in five hours?
What time zone is that?
I think is GMT.
That gives us the date.
Relatively or if we turn this off,
we'll get the date as a timestamp GMT.
And then you can also
set like other filters.
We're not gonna stress about that but if
you wanted to do like a full name, month.
You can format it like that and
then you'll get the August 12th, 2021.
You can do the short version of the month.
You can do the number abbreviation or
the number abbreviation without leading
zeros, however you wanna do that.
So there's a lot of like nice
ways to make these work if
you want to pull in the dates.
And then, we can just kind of
grab out whatever we need.
So I wouldn't actually use the raw body,
I would use the HTML.
So, we get the HTML, this might not
work in the graph QL explorer actually,
because HTML gets rendered at build time,
so this might blow up on us.
Yeah.
Let's just stop and restart that.
MDX has a few like special things
that make it a little bit tricky.
So it's some of that stuff can get weird.
But we also get access to like
the headings, which is pretty cool.
If you wanted to build
the table of contents,
you can pull out the headings and
what level of depth they are.
So there's a lot of really nice stuff
that you can do here where you're
able to do some pretty advanced
things out of the the graph QL.
Think what else is in here?
So that's the code body.
And then, will the HTML always crash or
did something just go weird?
Yeah, the HTML will always crash.
So let's not use that.
So instead, what we can do is
let's use that SEO component and
actually make this work.
Because if you'll notice,
let me stop and restart this so
that we've got a working dev server.
We have one problem,
which is we got these pages working.
Let me get back to One of
our pages that still exists.
I deleted the series.
Let's go to another block, right?
So we've got another blog,
but if I look in the head,
it's using all my default values.
And that's not actually what I want.
So it picked up some of this like
it picked up the blog post path.
But it didn't pick up my description and
didn't pick up my my title.
To do that, which I would hope
it just comes right out of here.
Whatever I put in here I want to work.
The trick is that our layout
component needs props to be set.
And in order to set those props,
we can't just directly wrapped
the layout because this won't
apply any prompts to it.
So instead, we need to do
a little bit of working around
to get this to function the way we want.
So we're going to create a custom
layout specifically for our posts.